For our next example of linear programming,
we will look at a problem involving graphs
and networks to do with Network Bandwidth.
So, suppose we have a small communication
network involving three users. So, the users
are capital A, capital B and capital C, and
each of them is connected through some switches,
which we call a, b and c. So, we have a network
which, this in an internet network, which
connects these three users and our requirement
is to ensure that each pair of users A to
B, B to C and A to C gets at least two mega
bits per second of connectivity from between
that pair of users.
So, we want at least two Mbps connectivity
along these three users. Now, notice that
from A to B, there are two ways I can send
packets, I can send them directly via A and
B or I can send them indirectly via small
c. So, it turns out, it does not really a
matter from the point of viewer, we uses whether
this 2 Mbps bandwidth comes from the shorter
a red route and a longer green route.
So, our aim is to combine the capacity of
the red and the green for each pair, so similarly
there will be, for example, there will be
a direct route from B to C and there will
be an indirect route that goes like this.
So, for each pair, there is a direct route
and an indirect route. So, long as combinations
of the capacities of the direct and indirect
routes add up to at least 2 Mbps, our customers
are satisfied. So, now the constraint that
we have is that these links have a capacity.
So, if I look at example the link between
B and C, it can only transmit 13 mega bits
per second total across all the different
connections that it is a part of.
Now, on the other side, we earn some money
from this customer which is not uniform. So,
from the A, B link, we get 300 rupees per
mega bit, Mbps per month, but from B to C
we get only 200, but from A to C we get 400.
So, now, we have to allocate a minimum of
2 mega bits. But customers are will to take
as much as we can give them subject to that
minimum and we get a certain amount of revenue
depending on how we utilizes the capacity.
So, our goal is to allocate bandwidth to maximize
the revenue given that the customers are willing
to take anything above 2 Mbps.
So, as we have been seeing, our aim is to
set this up as a linear program. So, in this
case, what are the variables that we are going
to use? So, recall that we said that every
connection has two routes. So, we have A to
B coming via the short route and we have A
to B coming via the long route. So, what we
use is the variable x, from A to B to denote
that quantity that is flowing on the red route
and similarly, y from A to B to denote the
quantity, it is flowing on the green route.
So, we have two variables associated with
the A to B service that we can provide, how
much goes directly x A B, how much goes indirectly
y A b. Similarly, between B and C will have
x B C which goes to the short route and y
B C which goes via the long route and same
way for x A C and y A C. So, we have the six
variables describing the different ways of
connecting pairs of customers.
Now, these variables are constrained by the
capacities of links. So, supposing we look
at this particular link, the link from small
b to Capital B, now it has a capacity of 10.
Now, what route does it lie on, so it certainly
lies on the short route A to B. So, it lies
on the x A B route. So, if any quantity which
is assigned to x A B will reach into these
10, similarly it lies on the y A b route,
so that also start ultimately reach capital
B to small b.
So, this will also meet into that, it also
lies on the B to C route. So, x B C and finally,
it lies on the B to C route going to the other
way, this is y B C. So, all these four routes
put together will add up to whatever capacities
flowing through this link and this link has
capacity 10, so x A B plus y A B plus x B
C plus y B C has to be at most 10.
So, likewise, if I look at for instances this
link, the same way I have all these different
things which are coming here. So, I have four
quantities, I have a direct link from A to
B, the indirect link from A to B, a direct
link from A to C and the indirect link from
A to C and they all must add up to at most
12. And the third same of wholes for this,
so these three constraints that we have seen
here, account for the capacities of that tail
and links. So, we are account for this capacity,
this capacity and this capacity, so these
three capacities are connected to our flows
by these three equations. So, this still leaves
us to account for these three constraints.
So, now, if we look at this link, then this
is a part of three connections, it is the
A to B direct connection, it is on the B to
C indirect connection, and finally it is on
the A to C indirect connection, so there is
a direct connection A to B plus the indirect
connection B to C plus the indirect connection
A to C, all together cannot be more than 6.
In the same way, we have similar equation
for this link.
So, it is lies on the indirect connection
from A to B, it lies on the indirect connection
from A to B, it lies on the direct connection
from B to C and it lies on the indirect connection
from A to C. So, these three things cannot
exceed 13 and the third same thing holds for11.
So, for a 11, we have that it lies on the
direct connection from A to C and on these
two indirect connections, A to B indirect
connection and B to C indirect connection.
So, in this way now we have covered the six
constraints, so we have three constraints
corresponding to the tail and links and we
have three constraints corresponding to the
links, the triangle. So, we have six total
constraints.
Finally, we have this minimum requirement
that between A and B, we must apply at least
2, between B and C we must apply at least
2 and between A and C we must apply at least
2 and these are the sums of the indirect and
direct, we do not distinguish between them.
And of course, every capacity must be non
negative, so this gives us all our constraints.
What are the objective functions? The objective
function is the revenue that we realize. So,
the A to B connection is x A B plus y A B,
this is the total volume that gives us 300.
Similarly, x B C plus y B C gives us 200 and
x A C plus y A C gives us 400. So, we multiply
300 into x A B plus y A B 200 into x B C plus
y B C and 400 into x A C plus y A C and add
it up, this is our total revenue and you want
to maximize this revenue.
So, for these particular numbers, these are
the answers that we get, that we have nothing
flowing directly from A to B, we have 7 going
from A to B directly and so on. So, if you
look for the example at this link. So, this
link lies on the direct route from A to B,
so that is 0, it lies on the indirect route
from A to B, that is 7, it lies in the direct
route from B to C, that is 1.5 and it lies
on the indirect route from B to C, that is
another 1.5. If you see that this is 10, therefore
this link as a total capacity of 10 and all
10 units are utilizes, given the combination
that it gives.
In this way, you can try it for each link
and find out that, everything except this
link of the 11 is actually saturated by this
flow, it also turns out here that you can
see that some of the quantities that we get
here are fractional. But since we are dealing
with internet bandwidth, there is no reason
it is not like, hiring or firing of person
or making offer corporate, we can easily make
split our bandwidth in some fractional quantities,
so that is not a problem.
There is however, another problem which is
the way we are actually set up the linear
program. So, we have the set up the linear
program is to take each possible way of outing
the traffic. So, we have A to B, we have a
link, we have A to B like this, we have another
path and for an each path, we have an variable
here, x A B, y A B and so on. So, the every
path is represented by the quantity flowing
through that path.
So, the problem with is that, the number of
paths flowing through the graph is going to
be exponential. So, this is not good a modeling
strategy. So, what we are doing is, we are
taking a network bandwidth allocation model
and we are implementing it or we are describing
it using linear programming. But if we setup
a program, linear program, which has a large
number of variables, then the problem is in
some sense blowing up in complexity in that
translation.
So, we do not want this, we want efficient
translations and this is not one, it so happens
that for a small problem like this of only
three customers, it was fine, but as it grows
larger and larger this translation will not
scale up. But we will look at another way
of looking at the these network flows as they
are called and see that in general network
flows can be easily represented, in terms
of linear programs. But it important to note
that in general, when we do a translation
into a linear program, we would like the number
of variables we get to be small - say polynomial
in the input problem. So, in the input problem,
if we have a certain size, the linear program
should not blow up.